
1. What is SEO and Explain the importance of SEO ?

Ans- SEO stands for "search engine optimization."
SEO means the process of improving our website to increase its visibility in Google, Microsoft Bing, and other search engines.
Ultimately, the goal of search engine optimization is to help attract website visitors who will become customers, clients or an audience that keeps coming back.
The importance of SEO are -
1. Organic Search Is a Good Source of Website Traffic - 
Organic search is often one of the highest sources of traffic for companies. And sometimes, SEO traffic is the primary source. 
Focusing on organic search gives us the potential to attract even more traffic over time if we're able to increase our rankings.
2. SEO Is Cost-Effective - 
SEO is usually a more cost-effective way to drive traffic compared to channels like paid social.
With SEO, we have to spend on our website and on content production. But we don’t have to buy an ad placement. 
3. SEO Complements Paid Marketing Efforts -
There's clearly a connection between PPC and SEO. 
This could be because we simply occupy more real estate on Search Engine Results Page (SERP).
4. SEO Builds Trust, Credibility, and Brand Recognition -
Appearing in search results frequently creates the perception that our brand is a trusted and credible source of information.
5.SEO Connects us with Customers Throughout the Buyer’s Journey -
We can connect with prospective customers multiple times throughout their journeys as their searches evolve over time. so, Through better SEO we can connect with them.
6. SEO Is a Scalable Growth Channel -
SEO is one of the few truly scalably customer acquisition channels. 
7.SEO Best Practices Help our Overall Marketing Performance -
SEO best practices (such as great website UX, high-quality content, and aligning with search intent) will help improve our general marketing performance.
If we just made a website with a great user experience and tons of helpful content, that would be beneficial even if we don’t get organic traffic from search results. 
8. SEO Reflects Consumer Behavior Changes - 
Optimizing for search means we'll stay on top of trends and consumer behavior changes.
Because keyword research shows us rising and declining trends if we do it right. 
9.SEO Results Are Quantifiable - 
SEO results are easy to measure. So, we can gauge how we're performing and whether we need to make adjustments.
10.SEO Holds our Competitive Edge -
Investing in SEO helps us maintain our competitive edge. 
Because SEO is a must if we want to keep up with and eventually surpass our competition in the search results. Which is often key for outcompeting them as a business.

3. What are the benefits of meta tags ?

Ans- Meta Tag(<meta>) is a HTML component that gives the metadata about a HTML document.
    MetaData can be characterized as data that gives the data of different information or basic information about information.
    The benefits of meta tags are - 
    1. Specifying Important Keywords- 
    The meta tag contains important keywords that are present on the web page and is utilized by the web browser to rank the page according to searches.
    Search Engine Optimization is another term for this optimizing the SEO rank of the content.
    2. Automatic Refresh- 
    A specified time will be mentioned in the meta tag after which the webpage will be automatically refreshed.
    3.Specifying Author of the Webpage-
    MetaTag allows us to mention the name of the author of the webpage .
    4. Providing a Description of the web page- 
    A brief description of the web page can be included in the Meta tag, which will help the web page rank on the internet.
    5.Meta Tags impact how our site appears in the Search Engine Results Page(SERPs) and how many people will be inclined to click through to our website. 
    They will therefore impact our traffic and engagement rates, which can impact our SEO and rankings.
    
5. Define Favicon and give an illustrative example.

Ans- A favicon is a small image displayed next to the page title in the browser tab.
   Favicons are a great way to differentiate a site from other sites especially when visitors have many tabs open or are browsing through their browser history or bookmarks bar.
   An HTML Favicon, also known as a favorite icon, is a graphical picture shown on the browser tab that indicates which website we are browsing. A favicon is typically 16 x 16 pixels in size and saved in the ICO file format.
   The steps involved in adding a favicon to our webpage using HTML are -
   1.A favicon is added to a web page's <head> element.
   2.Add the <link> element after the <title> element in our index.html file. 
   The <link> tag is most often used for adding a favicon to our website or linking to external style sheets.
   3.syntax- 
    <head>
       <title>My Page Title</title>
       <link
        rel="icon"
        type="image/jpg"
        href="favicon_image_location"/>
    </head>
    4.Now open the HTML file in our preferred browser. The icon is shown on the website.
    


